# Chrome Dino Game AI

This project uses a Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) to train an AI to play the Chrome Dino game. The AI learns to recognize when a cactus appears in the game and presses the up arrow key to jump over it.

## Installation

Before running the script, you need to install the required Python libraries:

```
pip install tensorflow
pip install keras
pip install pillow
pip install opencv-python
pip install mss
pip install pyautogui
```


## Project Structure

The project consists of the following main components:

1. `detection.py`: This file contains the model training code. It uses Keras and TensorFlow to train a CNN model on images from the game. 

2. `main.py`: This file contains the main script that uses the trained model to play the game. It captures the game screen, processes the images, feeds them to the model and presses the up arrow key when a cactus is detected.

3. `ai/train`: This directory should contain the training images. The images should be organized in two folders: "class1" and "class2" which is cactus and non cactus. 

4. `ai/validation`: This directory should contain the validation images, organized in the same way as the training images.

5. `model.h5`: This file will contain the trained model. It is generated by the `detection.py` script and used by the `main.py` script.

## Usage

1. Gather your training and validation images and place them in the appropriate directories.

2. Run the `detection.py` script to train the model:

    ```
    python detection.py
    ```

3. After the model is trained, run the `main.py` script to start the game:

    ```
    python main.py
    ```

## Limitations

Due to the nature of real-time games, this method might not be fast enough to consistently avoid the cacti in the game. Also, this approach might not work well with other obstacles that might appear in the game, such as birds.

## Future Work

Possible improvements could be to use a more complex model that can recognize a wider variety of obstacles, or to directly manipulate the game's code or memory for faster response times.
